# Voro++


Voro++ is a software library for carrying out three-dimensional computations of the Voronoi
tessellation. A distinguishing feature of the Voro++ library is that it carries out cell-based calculations,
computing the Voronoi cell for each particle individually. It is particularly well-suited for applications that
rely on cell-based statistics, where features of Voronoi cells (eg. volume, centroid, number of faces) can be used
to analyze a system of particles.

<small>homepage: </small><span class="software-link">[http://math.lbl.gov/voro++/](http://math.lbl.gov/voro++/)</span>

## Available installations


|Version|Supported CPU targets|Supported GPU targets|Module|
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|0.4.6|`generic`: `aarch64`, `x86_64`<br/><span class="software-cpu-arm">Arm</span>: `a64fx`, `neoverse_n1`, `neoverse_v1`, `nvidia/grace`<br/><span class="software-cpu-amd">AMD</span>: `zen2`, `zen3`, `zen4`<br/><span class="software-cpu-intel">Intel</span>: `haswell`, `skylake_avx512`, `sapphirerapids`, `icelake`, `cascadelake`<br/>|*(none)*|`Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-12.3.0`|
|0.4.6|`generic`: `aarch64`, `x86_64`<br/><span class="software-cpu-arm">Arm</span>: `a64fx`, `neoverse_n1`, `neoverse_v1`, `nvidia/grace`<br/><span class="software-cpu-amd">AMD</span>: `zen2`, `zen3`, `zen4`<br/><span class="software-cpu-intel">Intel</span>: `haswell`, `skylake_avx512`, `sapphirerapids`, `icelake`, `cascadelake`<br/>|*(none)*|`Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-13.2.0`|

## Extensions

Overview of extensions included in {'versions': [{'homepage': 'http://math.lbl.gov/voro++/', 'license': [], 'image': '', 'categories': [], 'identifier': '', 'toolchain': {'name': 'GCCcore', 'version': '12.3.0'}, 'toolchain_families_compatibility': ['2023a_foss'], 'module': {'full_module_name': 'Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-12.3.0', 'module_name': 'Voro++', 'module_version': '0.4.6-GCCcore-12.3.0'}, 'required_modules': [{'full_module_name': 'EESSI/2023.06', 'module_name': 'EESSI', 'module_version': '2023.06'}, {'full_module_name': 'GCCcore/12.3.0', 'module_name': 'GCCcore', 'module_version': '12.3.0'}, {'full_module_name': 'Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-12.3.0', 'module_name': 'Voro++', 'module_version': '0.4.6-GCCcore-12.3.0'}], 'cpu_arch': ['aarch64/generic', 'aarch64/a64fx', 'aarch64/neoverse_n1', 'aarch64/neoverse_v1', 'aarch64/nvidia/grace', 'x86_64/generic', 'x86_64/amd/zen2', 'x86_64/amd/zen3', 'x86_64/amd/zen4', 'x86_64/intel/haswell', 'x86_64/intel/skylake_avx512', 'x86_64/intel/sapphirerapids', 'x86_64/intel/icelake', 'x86_64/intel/cascadelake'], 'gpu_arch': {}, 'description': 'Voro++ is a software library for carrying out three-dimensional computations of the Voronoi\ntessellation. A distinguishing feature of the Voro++ library is that it carries out cell-based calculations,\ncomputing the Voronoi cell for each particle individually. It is particularly well-suited for applications that\nrely on cell-based statistics, where features of Voronoi cells (eg. volume, centroid, number of faces) can be used\nto analyze a system of particles.', 'version': '0.4.6', 'versionsuffix': '', 'extensions': []}, {'homepage': 'http://math.lbl.gov/voro++/', 'license': [], 'image': '', 'categories': [], 'identifier': '', 'toolchain': {'name': 'GCCcore', 'version': '13.2.0'}, 'toolchain_families_compatibility': ['2023b_foss'], 'module': {'full_module_name': 'Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-13.2.0', 'module_name': 'Voro++', 'module_version': '0.4.6-GCCcore-13.2.0'}, 'required_modules': [{'full_module_name': 'EESSI/2023.06', 'module_name': 'EESSI', 'module_version': '2023.06'}, {'full_module_name': 'GCCcore/13.2.0', 'module_name': 'GCCcore', 'module_version': '13.2.0'}, {'full_module_name': 'Voro++/0.4.6-GCCcore-13.2.0', 'module_name': 'Voro++', 'module_version': '0.4.6-GCCcore-13.2.0'}], 'cpu_arch': ['aarch64/generic', 'aarch64/a64fx', 'aarch64/neoverse_n1', 'aarch64/neoverse_v1', 'aarch64/nvidia/grace', 'x86_64/generic', 'x86_64/amd/zen2', 'x86_64/amd/zen3', 'x86_64/amd/zen4', 'x86_64/intel/haswell', 'x86_64/intel/skylake_avx512', 'x86_64/intel/sapphirerapids', 'x86_64/intel/icelake', 'x86_64/intel/cascadelake'], 'gpu_arch': {}, 'description': 'Voro++ is a software library for carrying out three-dimensional computations of the Voronoi\ntessellation. A distinguishing feature of the Voro++ library is that it carries out cell-based calculations,\ncomputing the Voronoi cell for each particle individually. It is particularly well-suited for applications that\nrely on cell-based statistics, where features of Voronoi cells (eg. volume, centroid, number of faces) can be used\nto analyze a system of particles.', 'version': '0.4.6', 'versionsuffix': '', 'extensions': []}], 'homepage': 'http://math.lbl.gov/voro++/', 'license': [], 'image': '', 'categories': [], 'identifier': '', 'description': 'Voro++ is a software library for carrying out three-dimensional computations of the Voronoi\ntessellation. A distinguishing feature of the Voro++ library is that it carries out cell-based calculations,\ncomputing the Voronoi cell for each particle individually. It is particularly well-suited for applications that\nrely on cell-based statistics, where features of Voronoi cells (eg. volume, centroid, number of faces) can be used\nto analyze a system of particles.'} installations
